We just finished the Selex phase, the rough edit phase, and the second edit refining, color correcting
stabilization phase of this learning lesson.
Now it is time to export our content for the proper media platform.
So I'm going to select my timeline here.
I'm going to hit command AM or I can go up to file export media.
I'm going to make sure H2 six four is selected.
And I'm going to go to the presets here.
Now, let's say I want to go to YouTube now.
Mine was shot in four K.
So I'm going to choose this YouTube for K function.
And of course, I did mention in a previous edit a little bit of a hack is even if your footage is 10
ATP and you're going to upload it online to YouTube or Facebook or Vimeo, and you want it to have just
a little bit better settings, you can add the preset at four K, even if it's not a four K.
This is going to compress your footage less outside of the export during the exporting process from
your editing software.
And it's going to compress your footage less as well during the upload process.
When YouTube and these online platforms do, they're crunching, compressing and optimizing process
on anything that you upload to their sites.
So we're going to select four K now.
You can see there's these black bars at the top of the page.
That is not what we want for the specific video.
So I'm going to click match source.
That's going to change the aspect ratio to properly fit our sequence.
Then I'm going to go to audio and I want to make sure our bit rate is set to 320.
Everything else is set to high.
And then I'm going to go to render my click render at maximum depth use, maximum render quality.
And lastly, before we click the output name, for this example, I want to show you a really great
technique on exporting.
And what that is, is using ACUE versus exporting something directly out of your editing software.
You can add it to an external queue and another software, and this will allow you to export multiple
edits at the same time.
So traditionally, I choose where I want it to go and hit save, and then I'll click export and then
a window would pop up and then with a loading bar and I wouldn't be able to do anything in my editing
software.
I'd have to wait for the export to finish.
Now, with this extra step, because we're working our way, becoming editing Ninja's, I'm going to
navigate to our proper editing folder that we set up at the very beginning of the project.
I'm going to create a new folder called Exports, and I'm going to title this Vieaux violinist, YouTube
V1.
OK.
And I'm going to hit ADD to queue.
What this is going to do is it's going to take all the data, all the information from our sequence
with the proper export settings.
Add it to Adobe Immediate Encoder.
And it's going to allow for me to continue to operate inside my editing software and make changes.
Now, what I want to do for this example is export again.
And this time I'm going to set my settings for Instagram.
So I'm going to be exporting my YouTube version and my Instagram version at the same exact time.
So it's got a preset.
And I'm going to go to Mobile Device 10 ATP and of course, I'm going to click match source or aspect
ratio is correct.
I'm going to go to audio.
Scroll down.
I'm going to go to bitrate, it's 320.
I want to choose for maximum rendered depth and maximum quality.
And then I'm going to go up to the output name and I'm a type in violinist, Vieaux, violinist instr
Instagram.
Version one, I'm going to hit save and then I'm going to add it to the queue.
Now we have our two exports ready to go, and all we have to do is hit the start queue button.
So I'm going to start the queue right now.
Boom in the bottom.
You have a little heads up panel that's showing where it is in the export.
And while that's happening, we can continue to make changes or we can continue to edit a different
project entirely.
So while this is exporting, I just kind of wanted to talk about something.
You know, everything is so much of it is about patience, you know.
Right now it's like, OK, I got to wait for this export and then you're editing is OK.
I got to wait for my clip to render.
And you're like, OK, well, I got to find the right shot.
And a lot of it is a time consuming, kind of slow trial and error process of maybe this is maybe this
will work.
Maybe this is the clip and.
It takes a very, I know, flexible mindset and some level of patience and acceptance to really become
a good editor that doesn't really just know how to do the techniques, but to create something different
and special and something that's uniquely you to your creative style and to find your own aesthetic
and find your look that people see that and they say, wow, OK, there's something interesting about
this video that takes a lot of patience and time and sitting in front of the computer and freaking,
wanting to like throw the laptop out of the window.
Sometimes, you know, like when you're editing a software crashes after you've been doing 20 minutes
of work and haven't hit the save button and having to restart and I mean, going through the years and
years of doing that.
And then at the end of the day, I always have such a big payoff and such a big reward in my chest.
And this feeling of proudness and satisfaction and excitement about when I do have the final product
that took so many hours of patience and working 30 minutes on a five second sequence or three hours
or three days on a five or 10 second sequence.
So have patience, you know, be OK with being slowed down.
I want to say buy the technology, because sometimes our brain is working and we know what we want to
do.
But to translate that out of the brain, into the body, into the keyboard, through the computer,
get the right shot in the right place with the right effect and sound and filter and timing takes a
lot faster than, oh, I know what I want to do.
And that takes a lot of practice allowing that process to happen and not getting too frustrated with
the technology that's kind of standing in the way that you're trying to work with.
So just something to think about as we continue to move forward and progress as video editing ninjas
in this chorus.
All right, and now we have our final exports, we have our YouTube version, this is ready to upload
online.
It's Farez at four K and then we have our Instagram version.
That's a smaller size.
And that wraps things up for this learning lesson.